.TH PACSEEK 1 "July 2026" "pacseek 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pacseek \- tech-brutalist TUI package manager for pacman + AUR
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pacseek
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pacseek
is a terminal user interface for browsing and managing packages on Arch-based
systems. It reads live package data through libalpm, searches the AUR over the
RPC interface, and groups packages into curated and user-defined collections.
.PP
Browsing and searching are read-only. When you apply a batch of marked packages
pacseek leaves the alternate screen and hands off to
.BR pacman (8)
to perform the actual install or removal, then returns to the interface with the
catalog reloaded.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-mock
Use the built-in prototype dataset instead of the live system. Useful for trying
the interface without touching libalpm or the network.
.TP
.B \-\-ascii
Render with the ASCII glyph set instead of the Unicode chrome. Use this on
terminals without dependable East-Asian ambiguous-width handling (for example
.BR alacritty ", " ghostty ", or the Linux console)"
where the symbol glyphs would otherwise render double-width and shear the
columns. Overrides the
.B glyphs
config key for the run. The same set can be made permanent with
.B glyphs = ascii
in the config file.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print the version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a short usage summary and exit.
.SH KEYS
.TP
.B 1\-6
Switch between the views (Browse, Installed, Updates, AUR, Collections, Orphans).
.TP
.B /
Focus the search box.
.TP
.B j / k
Move the selection down / up (arrow keys work too).
.TP
.B s
Cycle the sort order.
.TP
.B f
Cycle the repository filter.
.TP
.B d
Open or close the detail pane for the selected package. Inside the pane,
.B tab
cycles the dependency/provides links,
.B enter
opens the highlighted link's package, and
.B backspace
walks back along the trail.
.TP
.B o
Look up which package owns a file.
.TP
.B r
Toggle the install reason (explicit / dependency) for a package.
.TP
.B u
Update: queue a full system upgrade.
.TP
.B y
Refresh the sync databases (pacman \-Sy) and reload, so the Updates view
reflects upstream. pacseek never refreshes them on its own, so the update
counts are otherwise only as fresh as the last \-Sy.
.TP
.B space
Mark or unmark the selected package for the next batch.
.TP
.B a
Mark every visible package, or clear the marks when all are already marked.
.TP
.B c
Clean the pacman package cache via
.BR paccache (8)
(needs pacman-contrib).
.TP
.B m
Merge unmerged .pacnew / .pacsave files via
.BR pacdiff (8)
(needs pacman-contrib).
.TP
.B enter
Apply the marked batch, or confirm a pending action. In the collections picker,
open the highlighted collection.
.TP
.B h
Back out of an open collection to the collections picker.
.TP
.B x
Export the current package list to disk.
.TP
.B i
Import a package list from disk.
.TP
.B ?
Show the controls popout.
.TP
.BR q ", " esc
Quit, or dismiss the current popout.
.PP
The mouse also works: the wheel scrolls the list or an open detail pane,
clicking a row selects it, and clicking a sidebar entry switches views.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/pacseek/config.ini
User configuration: theme, key rebindings, the
.B package_managers
set (which of pacman, aur, flatpak, and homebrew are surfaced \(em chosen on
first run, editable here), and the
.B glyphs
mode (unicode or ascii). When this file does not yet exist, pacseek runs a
one-time prompt to pick the package managers and writes the answers here.
.TP
.I ~/.config/pacseek/collections.ini
User-defined package collections, merged in after the built-ins. Each collection
may declare a
.B manager
(pacman, aur, flatpak, or homebrew) that routes its members and tags it in the
picker apart from the curated collections and pacman's groups.
.TP
.I ~/.config/pacseek/pkglist.txt
Default target for the export and import commands.
.PP
The
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME
environment variable, when set, replaces
.I ~/.config
in the paths above.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pacman (8),
.BR pacdiff (8),
.BR paru (8)
